

News | Duke AI Master of Engineering

Jump to navigation

Duke Engineering

Pratt School of Engineering

Institute for Enterprise Engineering

Industry Relations

Leadership

News

Contact

Why Duke? The Duke Difference Career Services Graduate Outcomes What Tech Leaders Are Saying Degree Certificate Courses Faculty Apply

News

April 02, 2024

Dr. Brinnae Bent Joins Duke AI Master of Engineering Faculty

AI industry expert and Duke alum Dr. Brinnae Bent joins Duke AI Master of Engineering faculty

February 09, 2024 | Duke Today

The AI Explosion, Explained

Duke Engineering faculty contribute to a panel on generative AI, why it's suddenly everywhere, and what lies ahead.

December 19, 2023 | Duke Engineering

Inaugural Generative AI Hackathon Launches Imaginations

Duke Engineering’s inaugural generative AI Hackathon brings student collaboration, creativity and innovation to the latest technical tools

November 29, 2023 | Duke Research Blog

Putting Stronger Guardrails Around AI

Executive-in-Residence Lee Tiedrich, an expert in AI law and policy, recently spoke about the new AI executive order and various AI legislative proposals.

November 13, 2023 | Duke Engineering

Duke’s CREATE Center Joins the AI Revolution in Education

The new Center for Research & Engineering of AI Technology in Education seeks to benefit both educators and learners at Duke and beyond

November 10, 2023 | Duke Engineering

Bolstering Access to Engineering Graduate School

Duke Engineering’s annual Graduate Program Boot Camp inspires, mentors and empowers aspiring engineers from diverse backgrounds.

October 17, 2023 | Duke Engineering

Adapting to AI in the Classroom

How Duke Engineering faculty are working to effectively—and thoughtfully—use generative AI tools.

July 19, 2023 | Duke Engineering

Unlocking the Future Potential of Living Materials

Researchers across campus aim to harness bacteria to engineer adaptive living materials

May 15, 2023 | Duke Engineering

Duke Engineering Celebrates the Class of 2023

On Sunday, May 14, 2023, Duke Engineering celebrated more than 1,100 graduates from its various programs

March 29, 2023 | News & Observer

That Selfie You Posted on Instagram? Companies Are Using It in Unethical Ways

ECE/CS Professor Cynthia Rudin co-pens an opinion piece arguing for the immediate federal regulation of the acquisition and use of biometrics, which are the physical features that differentiate us such as our faces, voices and fingerprints.

Pages 1

2

3

4

5

next ›

last »

​ Join our mailing list! Sign up to receive more information about Duke Engineering graduate programs and recruitment events »

Admissions

Have a question about the program or admissions? Contact the Admissions & Recruiting team at pratt_masters@duke.edu .

© Copyright 2011-2024 Duke University

Main Menu

Why Duke? The Duke Difference Career Services Graduate Outcomes What Tech Leaders Are Saying Degree Certificate Courses Faculty Apply

Quick Links

Industry Relations Leadership News Contact

