

Tuition and Financial Aid | Duke Master of Engineering

Skip to main content

Duke University

Pratt School of Engineering

Apply Online

Visit

Contact

About Is Duke Right for Me? About the MEng Degree at Duke Courses and Curriculum Internship/Project Career Services & Outcomes Options for Current Duke Students Non-Degree Candidates Apply How to Apply Start Application Application Deadlines Application Requirements Tuition and Financial Aid Visit Duke Contact Admissions

Tuition and Financial Aid

Estimated Cost of Attendance

Campus Master of Engineering Programs

Cost of Attendance

In General

Tuition for campus-based Duke Master of Engineering programs for the 2024-2025 academic year is $32,990 per semester taken at the university.

In general, completion of the 30 required credits over three semesters would result in a total tuition cost of $98,970. Internship courses do not incur tuition charges.

AI for Product Innovation

Tuition for the Master of Engineering in Artificial Intelligence for Product Innovation over two semesters and a summer session would result in a total tuition cost of $75,877. The internship course does not incur tuition charges.

2024-2025 Estimated Campus Tuition, Fees, and Expenses

For one year of study

Academic Year 2024-2025

Fall 2024

Spring 2025

Tuition

$32,990

$32,990

Health Fee

$487

$487

Health Insurance

$3,381

$0

Activity Fee

$18

$18

Student Services Fee

$12

$12

Transcript Fee

$120

$0

Recreation Fee

$190

$190

Housing

$6,008

$7,510

Board (Food)

$1,880

$2,350

Books & Supplies

$322

$322

Local Transportation

$904

$1,130

Personal & Miscellaneous

$1,896

$2,370

Total Cost of Attendance, per semester

$48,208

$47,379

Total Cost of Attendance, per academic year

$95,587

Notes

* Tuition, fees, and estimates subject to confirmation each May.

Rates subject to change. Program in Artificial Intelligence for Product Development varies.

** Required unless you can show proof of comparable private insurance coverage.

Also:

Domestic students, if accepting a federal loan, may anticipate approximately $900 in loan origination fees per semester.

Internship courses do not incur tuition charges

There is no charge for registration for students in the Master of Engineering program

Federal Financial Aid recipients may qualify for work study .

International students bringing a spouse and/or dependent(s) may find funding requirements here .

Normal Program Duration

The normal program duration is one and one-half years of study (3 semesters) for all programs, except Artificial Intelligence for Product Innovation.

The duration of the Artificial Intelligence for Product Innovation program is one year of study (2 semesters and a summer session).

The normal load is 4 courses (12 units) per semester in the first year.

Online Master of Engineering Programs

Tuition for online Duke Master of Engineering programs for the 2024-2025 academic year is $9,897 per course taken at the university.

In general, completion of the 30 required credits over five semesters would result in a total estimated tuition cost of $98,970. Tuition increases occur each year. Please note that the internship courses do not incur tuition charges.

2024-2025 Estimated Online Tuition, Fees, and Expenses

Tuition

$98,970

($19,794 per semester) *

Transcript Fee

$120 *

Books

$644 *

TOTAL

$99,734

Notes

* Students typically take 2 courses per semester. Tuition, fees, and estimates subject to confirmation each May.

Also:

Domestic students, if accepting a federal loan, may anticipate approximately $900 in loan origination fees per semester.

No tuition is charged for course credits received for internship, internship assessment, or residency courses. There is a room and board fee associated with residency.

There is no charge for registration for students in Duke Master of Engineering programs

Online Certificate Programs

Tuition

Tuition for stand-alone online certificate programs in Business Foundations for Engineers and AI Foundations for Product Innovation in the 2024-2025 academic year is $8,364 per course.

There are two semesters per academic year. Students typically take one course per semester. At current rates, completion of

the four required courses to earn a stand-alone online certificate would result in a total tuition cost of $33,456.

Transcript Fee

All entering students will be charged in the first semester a one-time mandatory fee of $120 for transcripts. This fee entitles the student to an unlimited number of Duke transcripts.

Not Eligible for VA Benefits or Federal Student Aid

These stand-alone online certificate programs are not currently eligible for VA benefits or federal student aid. Please check back for updates.

Important Note for International Applicants

Please Note: These stand-alone online certificate programs do NOT qualify students for U.S. visa sponsorship.

Gainful Employment Disclosures*

Program Length

Typically 2 years for Business Foundations for Engineers Certificate, assuming 1 course per semester

Typically 15 months for AI Foundations for Product Innovation Certificate (1 course per semester, including summer)

Program Costs

The amounts shown below include costs for the entire program, assuming normal time to completion. There may be additional costs for living expenses. Note that this information is subject to change:

Tuition

$8,364 per 3-credit class, and a total of $33,456 for the certificate **

Transcript Fee

$120 **

Books

$322

TOTAL

$33,898

Notes

** Duke may change its tuition for each academic year and this estimate is based on current academic year tuition charges.

Student Loans

Information about average student debt, monthly debt expense and debt interest rate have been withheld since fewer than 10 students have completed this program

Job Placement Rates

We are not currently required to calculate a job placement rate for program completers

Program graduates are employed in the following fields:

Information Technology

Manufacturing

Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics

Transportation, Distribution, and Logistics

The program does not meet any licensing requirements

Additional Information: Date Created 3/15/2021

*

These disclosures are required by the U.S. Department of Education

Financial Aid

Apply for aid »

Duke Mission Scholarships

Eligible students demonstrating a commitment to fostering a community of unique lived experiences and inclusive perspectives may receive up to 50 percent tuition scholarship annually through our Duke Mission Scholarships. Additional opportunities include up to $10,000 per year for students to engage in research under the guidance of a principal investigator. Contact us for more details.

Competitively Awarded Fellowships

The Pratt School of Engineering encourages our graduate students to apply for competitively awarded research fellowships.

In addition to extra training, resources and career-building opportunities, a fellowship identifies as a student as top scholar, and bestows a measure of honor and recognition.

More information »

Loans

Duke University Graduate School financial aid packages for domestic master students are limited to the federal financial aid offered by Direct Lending Federal Loan Programs .

In order to be considered for federal financial aid which includes federal work-study funding; you must complete the FAFSA application.

The FAFSA (Free Application for Federal Student Aid) is required for any need-based loan program along with federal work-study.

Below is one of the basic eligibility requirements to receive federal student aid:

Be a United States Citizen or an eligible non-citizen

If you have a “green card” (in other words, if you are a permanent resident alien), you will be considered an “eligible noncitizen” and will be able to get federal student aid if you meet the

other basic eligibility criteria.

If you meet the eligibility requirements, please continue to https://studentaid.gov/h/apply-for-aid/fafsa and follow the steps to submit. Graduate students are considered independent, and as such parental income is not required. New FAFSA's are available every October 1st for the corresponding year.

Duke Graduate School FAFSA School Code: 002920 .

Visit the Duke Financial Aid website for more information on application procedures for student loans.

Duke University maintains information on private lenders for citizens, permanent residents, and non-US citizens - see this information here .

Students awarded Federal loans must make satisfactory academic progress toward their degree. Guidelines may be found here .

On-Campus Work

Campus Programs Only

While enrolled in the campus program, many students work in a variety of places, such as campus libraries and various departments within Duke University. Teaching assistantships are available in various departments, and some departments have research assistantships as well.

These positions are paid an hourly rate, and most students work between 10 to 20 hours per week. Positions are generally posted and filled just a week or two before classes begin each semester.

Veterans Education Benefits

Duke University offers information for veterans who are applying for U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) benefits , including the Yellow Ribbon Program. Veterans who are applying for VA benefits to participate in one of Duke’s Master of Engineering programs should list “Master of Engineering” as the title of their program on the application, rather than the specific department/program MEng in which they are participating.

Apply

How to Apply

Start Application

Application Deadlines

Application Requirements

Tuition and Financial Aid

Visit Duke

Contact Admissions

Duke Graduate & Professional Student Financial Aid

Apply for Aid

​ Join our mailing list! Sign up to receive more information about Duke Engineering graduate programs and recruitment events »

Contact Duke

Email to Admissions at

pratt_masters@duke.edu

© Copyright 2011-2024 Duke University

Main Menu

About Is Duke Right for Me? About the MEng Degree at Duke Courses and Curriculum Internship/Project Career Services & Outcomes Options for Current Duke Students Non-Degree Candidates Apply How to Apply Start Application Application Deadlines Application Requirements Uploading a Transcript Grade Scale Short Answer Essays Resume Recommendations GRE Scores English Language Testing Application Fee Interview/Video Introduction Minimum Application Requirements International Applicants Deposit for Enrolling Students Submitting Final Transcripts Tuition and Financial Aid Visit Duke Contact Admissions

Quick Links

Apply Online Visit Contact

