How to Apply

Thank you for your interest in our program!

Our program uses a rolling admissions process that evaluates applications as they are submitted and returns decisions in a timely manner. Find out how to apply and see our schedule of application deadlines below.

If you have questions, please contact our Admissions team at pratt_masters@duke.edu .

Applicant Requirements of Master of Engineering Program - 
The Duke AI Master of Engineering (MEng) program is designed to be accessible to participants from a variety of engineering and science backgrounds. Applicants should have:
1. An undergraduate degree in science or engineering (or equivalent technical work experience if your degree is in a non-technical field), and
2. A minimum of one (1) semester of programming (any language), and
3. Sufficient DUOLINGO, IELTS, or TOEFL English Language Testing scores (official result required; international students only), and
4. Two (2) semesters of calculus
Prior coursework in probability and statistics and linear algebra is highly encouraged, but not required for admission.

Applicant Requirements of Graduate Certificate Program - 
The Duke AI Foundations for Product Innovation Graduate Certificate is designed for working professionals with a technical or scientific background. Participants are expected to be working full-time while completing the Certificate program. Applicants should have:
1. An undergraduate degree in science or engineering (or equivalent technical work experience if your degree is in a non-technical field), and
2. A minimum of one (1) semester of programming (any language), and
3. Sufficient DUOLINGO, IELTS, or TOEFL English Language Testing scores (official result required; international students only), and
4. Two (2) semesters of calculus
International applicants - please note that this standalone certificate program does not qualify students for US visa sponsorship.

Application Checklist:
1. Application Fee US$75. Paid by credit card with your application.
2. Documentation of your Bachelor's Degree, in engineering or science from an accredited institution :
    a. Transcripts (or, for institutions not using a 4.0 system, estimated GPA and grade scale )
3. Other Items:
    a. Short Answer Essays
    b. Resume
    c. Three (3) Recommendations
    d. Video Introduction
4. International Applicants: English Language Testing official results
5. Optional for 2024 Applicants: Graduate Record Exam (GRE) official results, or equivalent exam

Deadlines:

For Fall Entry - The Artificial Intelligence Master of Engineering and Graduate Certificate programs review applications on a rolling basis. Applications submitted earlier than the deadlines listed below will likely receive an earlier response.

ON-CAMPUS Master of Engineering

For the application process at Duke University, there are two primary rounds for submission and decision notifications. In the first round, applications must be received by January 15th. Applicants will be notified of decisions by March 15th and must respond by April 15th. The second round requires applications to be submitted by March 15th. Decision notifications for the second round will be sent by April 15th, and responses are required by May 1st.

ONLINE Master of Engineering

For the application process at Duke University, there are two primary rounds for submission and decision notifications. In the first round, applications must be received by January 15th. Applicants will be notified of decisions by March 15th and must respond by April 15th. The second round requires applications to be submitted by April 15th. Decision notifications for the second round will be sent by May 15th, and responses are required by June 1st.

ONLINE Certificate Program

For the application process at Duke University, there are two primary rounds for submission and decision notifications. In the first round, applications must be received by January 15th. Applicants will be notified of decisions by March 15th and must respond by April 15th. The second round requires applications to be submitted by April 15th. Decision notifications for the second round will be sent by May 15th, and responses are required by June 1st.

Start Your Application

Find the link at Duke AIPI main page.

Enrolling students are required to pay a deposit.

ANNUAL SECURITY AND FIRE SAFETY REPORTS

The Annual Security Report and Annual Fire Safety Report include institutional policies concerning campus safety and security, as well as statistics for the previous three years concerning reported crimes that occurred on Duke University property and on public property adjacent to campus and fires that have occurred in residence halls. A copy of these reports can be obtained by contacting the Duke Police Department at 684-4602 or writing to 502 Oregon Street, Durham, NC 27708 or by accessing: police.duke.edu/news-stats/clery

​ Join our mailing list! Sign up to receive more information about Duke Engineering graduate programs and recruitment events.

Admissions

Have a question about the program or admissions? Contact the Admissions & Recruiting team at pratt_masters@duke.edu .

