MENG 570: Business Fundamentals for Engineers Course Syllabus

COURSE OVERVIEW & LEARNING OBJECTIVES
Engineering is an important function in any business. Often in today’s tech-driven world, a company’s ability to
compete well and capture profits is grounded in its well-played technology, which most often stems from its engineering
talent. It is a great time to be an engineer!
But the technology is not useful to the business if it is not well-played. What is “well-played” technology? It is
technology used in the product, in the delivery of a service, or in the internal operations of a company that creates
business advantage. That is, it supports the business’ longer-term business and technology strategy, and/or it delivers
results in the short term. And the key... it creates a competitive advantage in the marketplace that delivers greater
profits. Well-played technology. Of course, there have been many technology plays that have not translated to
increased profits. How is competitive advantage which drives profits envisioned and created? Only by having
employees (especially engineers) who (1) understand technology, what it can do and can make it happen, (2) understand
the business and how it makes a profit; (3) understand how to leverage technology in the business so that it drives
profits.
The goal of this course is to introduce the MEng student to the full cycle of business, its core functions, and how it all
comes together to build a business. The impact of well-played technology stands out in two areas.
(1) The unique aspects of a business, often grounded in technology, create a competitive advantage in the market and
drive sales and profits. As soon as a business offers the same as (or less than) its competitors, the profit picture is bleak.
Where do these new business ideas come from? How are new, innovative businesses imagined and launched? In this
class, student teams will come up with their own business idea, create a business model, and pitch it to a local angel
investor.
(2) Whether the business at hand is a new business just being launched or a business that has been around for years, the
business must be well executed. Investments must be made with careful due diligence. Products and services must
adapt to changing customer needs. Supply must be available. Economies ebb and flow. A new competitor can disrupt
the whole market. External financing is sometimes needed. A strategic acquisition can be game-changing. In this class,
students will learn the vocabulary and concepts of financial intelligence and will apply the knowledge by interpreting
financial news articles, analyzing financial statements, running a simulated business (as part of a team, competing
against the other teams in the class), and presenting the simulated company’s financial results to their Board of
Directors.
This course is fundamentally a “learn-by-doing” course from a business perspective, and most (not all) of the work is
performed as part of a team. (Note: Your team will be assigned to you.)


